# Unity-procedural-project

My goal in this project is to create a procedural world that has a lot of objects or structures related to musical expression. There will be a player POV which will move in this world, perhaps freely or on a predetermined path.  The main idea would be to generate objects around the player as they move. Say one type of object would first be constructed using an array of invisible markers in a cube. A randomly determined line path through random markers as waypoints will give a unique line shape which makes up the visual portion of object to the player. a pulse will follow from waypoint to waypoint along this line, and at each point a random note will play. Each note will be correct for a particular scale associated with the objects, so melodies are random but always in key. The pulse travelling along the lines as each note plays will give a calming rhythmic effect, these pulses will also be great chances for the visuals of the object to change, either in colour, or even position. Perhaps each note has an equivalent vertical position, much like a music staff, and the objects moving from one position in space to the next as they carry along may be a nice effect.

A big inspiration for the kind of experience I want to make is the game proteus https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BMQfCMIk4F0

in this game, music is procedurally generated, and is tied to certain objects in the environment, with the impression that the objects themselves generate this music. Although the melodies themselves are random, they all make sense given the objects that create them. Animals for instance will make much more distinct stacatto sounds compared to the airier melodies of falling leaves, for instance.

This sort of consideration for crafting a world with similar but distinct procedural systems that can interact in new ways on top of that lends a lot of replayability in my eyes. It is also the sort of game I'd look to in terms of gameplay, where player input is kept to a minimum and has more of an observer role, however the presence of the player still disturbs the environment and creates new music. 

